[THEME MUSIC]
>>ANDREW BARTZIS:
It was a tied score,
bottom of the ninth inning,
our team hit a home run,
and my world changed.
At first I thought I would
just be a news reporter.
I didn't understand
that it would involve
business, websites, the
internet, before any
of that ever existed.
We're a culmination of 66
worlds in a binary star system
that I call the Galactic
Ascension Machine.
Not all soul families are good.
Example, the elites
that rule this world.
A lot of young children
who have traumas,
they could smell the
mouse fart next door.
Let's just say, there's
well over 10,000 species
actively invested
with the journey
to awaken or to keep us asleep.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
George Noory with you.
Andrew Bartzis is with
us, a Reiki master
and Akashic records reader,
known as a galactic historian.
Fascinating.
He reads and interprets
individual, global galactic
histories.
Andrew, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
>>BARTZIS: Well, thank you.
I'm glad to be here with you.
>>NOORY: How in the world
did you get involved in this?
>>BARTZIS: It actually
started out at a baseball game
when I was 9 years old.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>BARTZIS: Cleveland Indians.
It was a tied score,
bottom of the ninth inning,
our team hit a home run,
and my world changed.
>>NOORY: They weren't playing
my Detroit Tigers, were they?
>>BARTZIS: No, no, no, no.
What happened is, I began
to understand everyone
who was in the stadium live.
Who they were.
What they were.
10,000 generations into the
past and 10,000 generations
into the future.
>>NOORY: It just
hit you like that?
>>BARTZIS: It literally
hit me like that,
with an awareness I had
to do something with it.
And that I had to live
a life as a young person
and an adult person,
not in a separation
but in a co-creative reality.
Meaning, I was
learning a language
of multidimensional
reality, such as children
who learn to speak two
languages at a young age
think differently when you
hook them up to a brain
scan process.
And part of my journey and
my activation at that point
was to be in both worlds without
competition between the others.
>>NOORY: Did you do
this all on your own?
>>BARTZIS: Pretty much, yeah.
There were things
that helped me get me
through the various
humps of the process,
but everything was
personal choice.
Every aspect from age 9,
10, 12 was personal choice.
Do I dedicate myself to this?
Do I dedicate to not have
a competitional process
between what's going
on in the other world
and what's going
on in this world?
Can I still be a
human being here?
If I can't be a
human being here,
there's no point in
having the greater
experiences on the other side.
>>NOORY: So you realized at a
very young age, 9 years old,
this is what you wanted
to do for a living.
>>BARTZIS: At first,
when I was young,
I thought I would just be a
news reporter on CBS News,
giving an update on the
changes that the humanity was
going through, like
a two-minute spot.
I didn't understand
that it would involve
business, websites, the
internet, before any
of that ever existed.
>>NOORY: What was the
aha moment for you
beyond the 9-year-old thing?
>>BARTZIS: I did a sweat lodge
with the Huichol Indians,
a guy named Brant
Secunda, when I was 20.
And it was one of
those moments where
the communal prayer of
everybody that was there
completed a circuit in me.
I grew up Greek Orthodox, and
I understand what prayer was,
but this was
something different.
It was--
>>NOORY: I love the
Greeks, by the way.
A great community in St. Louis.
>>BARTZIS: It was palpable.
It was internal.
It was external.
It was purifying.
And it reminded me
of people I knew
in the past and the experience
at the baseball game.
Why did I have to
know who they were?
10,000 generations into the
past and into the future.
Because we're coming into a
confluence of all these beings
who want to be incarnated
here, now on earth.
And there's a limitation
process of who can get born
and who dies every day.
So the greater journey of
understanding why people
come into this world.
The type of experience
they're looking for.
There are thousands
of other worlds, what
makes this world different?
And why did I come here
with this point of view
of the galactic historian?
People come here because,
this is what I call,
you get your double PhD in the
School of Hard Knocks here.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>BARTZIS: You learn source
connection and source
disconnection.
The main role of
this world is, we're
a culmination of 66 worlds
in a binary star system
that I call the Galactic
Ascension Machine.
All those beings
who over millions
of years engaged in negative
forms of time travel,
time travel erasure, they
created a toxic pollution
amongst many other worlds.
The higher-level entities
and founder beings
put everything in
one solar system that
were the greatest offenders.
And earth is at the peak of it.
It's where you learn your
greatest amount of source
connection, disconnection.
It's where you can resolve
the unresolvable here.
>>NOORY: What is a
galactic historian, Andrew?
>>BARTZIS: It's a
being who's lived
the entire dramatic process
through each and every soul
family in the greater
galactic eras of light.
Instead of thinking years,
think of-- an era of light
might be how much a
solar system or a galaxy
has grown in life force.
It reaches this point
where it's maximum,
then the galaxy expands.
We know that this
regularly happens.
The galaxy go through
expansion processes.
And when it does, you're
there to record it,
and all the individual
dramas that are around it,
to try to prevent
it or accept it.
And here, the galactic
historian, meaning,
I've lived in just about all
of the soul families that have
secrets, or don't have secrets,
or have one point of view that
the others don't.
It's all coalesced in one place.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
On Gaia's program, "Microdose,"
they talk about diving
into the Akashic records.
And then let's talk about
your Akashic records.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> It's been referred to
as the Hall of Records,
the Library of Light, the Mind
of God, God's Remembrance.
There's many ways that
they are referred to.
They hold what we would
call our past, present,
and potential future.
And it's because we are
here, in linear time,
in the third dimension.
And we've agreed to this
time-space continuum that says,
well, there is a past,
there is a present,
and there's the future.
But where these records
reside, we could say,
is really in the eternal
now, in the present moment,
and so there is no past,
there is no future,
there is only now.
>> When I explain about
the eighth dimension
and the Akashic records, I used
to explain it like if it were
a library or Wikipedia, where
you can go and look for any
information you want.
But for the eighth
dimension, when
you realize that every
dimension is just
a perspective of
reality, you will
realize that the
eighth dimension is not
the place where you have to go
to look for that information.
But you have to become
in order to see and feel
that information.
>> It would seem that accessing
the Akashic records is a more
metaphysical process than merely
reading words on a physical
page.
So how is human consciousness
connected to the Akashic realm?
>> If we think that we are a
leaf or a flower in a tree,
and because we are a leaf
or a flower we are trapped
in the tree.
is because we didn't understand
that the flower and the leaf
are the product of the tree.
They are not something separate.
They are trying
to feed the tree.
With every experience,
with every breath,
you are feeding the network.
The Akashic records
is this library
where every book that
haven't been written yet,
and every book that was
written, shares the information
all the time.
[END PLAYBACK]
Andrew, is it easy to
access the Akashic records?
>>BARTZIS: Yes, for me.
Because I've been
doing it for so long,
and I've reached an internal
process where there's
no competition, no
hierarchical order
to have access, as long as I
remain in a neutral perceptive
state, not allowing
information to stick.
I call it the sacred neutral
perspective, where I just
give myself that choice that
no matter what the data is,
it is just data.
>>NOORY: You're just impartial.
>>BARTZIS: Well,
there's the next level
of impartial, where I've
made it a personal choice
how to speed up or slow
down the information.
So that if I'm trying
to perceive something,
it's coming at me in
many different forms,
often in the form
of a coded light.
>>NOORY: How do you use
the Akashic records?
>>BARTZIS: Well,
I can read people,
like many other psychics.
Data is available at
any moment of time,
it's just a matter of how
I'm going to process it.
When I'm working with a person,
the first thing I look at
is their atlas and
axis, their C1 and C2.
It says everything that's
going on in their reality.
It's like, is the spinal
column in alignment?
Is it not aligned?
Is it emotionally disabled?
Is it emotionally enabled?
>>NOORY: You can tell that?
>>BARTZIS: Yeah.
Yeah.
And use the Akashic
record to determine,
is this a past life process?
Is this a DNA issue going back
to their mother and father?
Do they have cancers?
All those things can become
a part of that journey.
And it's a matter of
what they're ready for.
>>NOORY: As a human being, when
we're in the mother's womb,
are we developing
mentally at that point?
>>BARTZIS: Yeah.
From the moment the
seed meets the egg,
you are in what's called
"womb time," where
our astral worlds will break
down to the North Pole,
our ancestors, those
that came before us.
And the South
Pole, the ancestors
that are going to come.
The one that are planning birth.
Those astral societies
that are in the South Pole,
as soon as that egg and
a sperm meet together,
you go into this state
of leaving the no time
and entering time, where the
beginning of your consciousness
expands with the different
growth of the cells.
The heart's the first
organ that's born.
The tongue is the second organ.
And as you begin to
develop, you begin
to plan spiritual contracts.
Who's your third grade teacher?
Is your mother and father going
to be a verbal arguer early,
or are they going
to learn about it?
>>NOORY: And we're
planning that out?
>>BARTZIS: Yeah.
We're planning all of this
out, but we're planning out
the infinite potentials.
Free will is still
a clear choice.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
After birth, what happens?
>>BARTZIS: After that breath
that says, I want to live
and I will not fail,
my breath to live,
there's the first 18 months
where you can change contracts.
Let's say, instead of using
wood to build a house,
you need to use concrete.
Because that's all available.
You have to build a
different high school,
or you have to make a
different group of friends.
And other free
will that involves
learning social
activities, interacting
with friends and family.
Or making a choice,
are you going
to be a professional
pianist the whole life.
Because that's what's coming
out to you at a young age.
>>NOORY: When do you
make those choices?
>>BARTZIS: Early on.
>>NOORY: Baby size?
>>BARTZIS: 2 to 6.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>BARTZIS: Yeah, 2 to 6.
While we're still forming the
majority of our personality,
and how family
members influence us.
What does money mean?
For the longest time,
there were a lot
of people that were
heavily confused,
because at an early age,
they were taught money
is more important than love.
>>NOORY: That is
dangerous, isn't it?
>>BARTZIS: Very dangerous.
And you see a lot of
cultures and societies
that function that way.
>>NOORY: How does free
will play into this?
>>BARTZIS: It is the
most important gift
we have as human beings.
>>NOORY: Do we have a choice?
>>BARTZIS: Absolutely,
we have a choice.
Just because something's
been infinitely planned out,
doesn't mean you can't choose.
All a fetus is doing
is, in a dream state,
looking at the unique
potentials of what
the 10 billion human beings
that live on this world
could potentially be.
If you were to see it as an
algorithm that Joe was born,
Joe meets Anne, Joe and Anne
have a child, all of that
is in an algorithm of what it
takes for them to get together.
And all of that's free
will, co-creation,
for them to do that.
At any time they could quit.
>>NOORY: At what
age, Andrew, do you
start counseling these people?
>>BARTZIS: At a bunch of ages.
I've done some teenagers
and some younger people.
>>NOORY: Do they get it?
>>BARTZIS: It depends.
Everybody's in a
different place.
And part of using the
Akashic record is--
what I see is, what will affect
them six months from now?
What are the words that
I can come up with--
>>NOORY: Or a year or
two years from now.
>>BARTZIS: Or a
year or two years--
that actually gives
them the greatest chance
for potential change.
Now, if it's somebody
that's a professional adult
and they've been dealing with
depression their whole life,
it's going to be
spiritual motivation.
And do you have
a daily practice.
A daily practice is more
than just meditation.
It's an enthusiastic
effort to do,
whether it's meditation,
yoga, free thinking, artwork.
You're doing something to
better yourself and grow
your natural energy field
with that enthusiastic effort.
>>NOORY: Why is it important
to know our past lives?
>>BARTZIS: So we don't
make the same mistakes.
>>NOORY: Over and over again.
>>BARTZIS: Here's an example.
If we knew 0.01%
of our past lives,
we'd never make
the same girlfriend
or boyfriend mistakes.
Our government would never
be the way it is today.
That's just 0.01.
>>NOORY: And we'd know when to
invest in Apple stock, right?
>>BARTZIS: Exactly.
Our stock market wouldn't
even be what it is today.
>>NOORY: Let's look at a
clip from Gaia's "Microdose"
about the benefits of
knowing past lives.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> The past lives explain
something in current life,
because the past lives have
a direct connection to life
today.
They explain something
we're working on
to change in life today,
which is what we call karma.
They also can explain
a relationship,
a phobia, a physical symptom.
The soul is required to evolve
and we're required to learn,
so we gather karma and
we also gather dharma.
And that's what we're working
on in our current life.
Karma is a free-will
decision we made
in a past life that, perhaps,
wasn't the best decision.
It's not a permanent
black mark on your soul.
It's something you can
balance in a subsequent life.
You have a life plan,
life intentions,
and then you basically
come in with free will.
>> Many humans experience
profound suffering during
their lifetime.
So why would a soul choose
to come into a body knowing
it will be painful?
>> It's perfectly plausible
to me that from the framework
outside of this one, we would
choose to come into it knowing
that we were going to be having
a certain kind of suffering.
Because we know
from that framework
that it's time-limited,
that you'll be out of it.
But then once you get
into this framework,
see, that knowledge
is blocked, so
that you're faced there
with the raw suffering
without the insight.
Maybe, the event, that you
chose it in the first place,
but also, that it will be over.
>> One of the most fascinating
parts of reincarnation is
the idea of a soul group or
a group of souls that choose
to incarnate together.
>> I know this from client,
after client, after client,
where what they come upon
at times at the soul level
of a regression, is a group of
souls with whom they incarnate
repetitively.
Simply put, I like to
call it a soul pod.
A soul pod means, most of
us have about 10 to 20 souls
with whom we
incarnate most often.
If you're the parent
and there's a child,
you made an agreement
at the soul level
to be parent and child.
You came together for a reason.
[END PLAYBACK]
Tell us more, Andrew,
about these soul groups.
How do they accumulate?
>>BARTZIS: I call
them soul families.
And we're not in
one soul family.
If we see ourselves
as ancient beings--
and I'm a big believer, there
are very few young souls here
in our reality.
This is the place where
people get their double PhD,
and whatever young
souls that are here,
they made it out of effort.
A soul family,
you can have many.
Example, starseeds, you're a
pleiadian, you're an arcturian,
and you come to this
world with the attributes
from those other worlds.
And those attributes
fade after a lifetime,
or they get stronger
the more that you
work with the different groups.
>>NOORY: Are we aware of them?
>>BARTZIS: At some level.
Not all soul families
are good, though.
Example, if we look at the
elites that rule this world,
they're not commonly accepted
as a normal soul family.
They're at an elite status,
with an elite level,
and only allow a certain
group of people within that.
>>NOORY: They've got
their own agenda.
>>BARTZIS: They've got
their own agenda that
lasts hundreds of
thousands of years,
and it's a closed door club.
Versus the common
Indigenous group
that shares their culture, their
teachings, their healings, who
are open to everyone,
no matter how
advanced or unadvanced you are.
And then there are, like
the person was saying,
pods, people you
regularly incarnate with.
These are the core people
that you're going lifetime
to lifetime with.
Where this person may be
your regular eighth grade
teacher, or this person may be
your regular first failed love.
Because you know, each time
you get that failed love,
there's going to be a lesson
that comes from it that
makes you a stronger person.
And that one person
you chose was
great as a failed first love,
but 35 years later, they're
still your best friend.
>>NOORY: What do
you think of karma?
Is it real?
>>BARTZIS: Yeah, absolutely.
Karma can be minute
and it can be great.
It can be as minute as
not tipping your server,
and it can be as great
as starting a war.
And then the sub-things
that are attached to that.
>>NOORY: But does it
come back and bite you?
>>BARTZIS: Sometimes it
bites you like a gnat,
and other times it
bites you in the wallet.
Other times--
>>NOORY: Like a scorpion.
>>BARTZIS: Exactly.
>>NOORY: What
determines that, Andrew?
>>BARTZIS: The
veracity of intention.
>>NOORY: Explain.
>>BARTZIS: If one decides
I want to start a war
and I don't care about
the effects of it, that
means all the choices
that are handed
to the downward
positions of those
that are going to enforce the
war, the karma goes up to you.
The veracity.
That means you've
made a decision
and all those underlings still
have an aspect of the karma,
but the totality
of it goes uphill.
>>NOORY: That old saying, what
goes around comes around--
>>BARTZIS: Correct.
>>NOORY: --is pretty
poignant, isn't it?
>>BARTZIS: Mm-hmm.
And that's why war has tied
our karmic cycles and journeys
together, which is so
hard to break right now.
>>NOORY: How did you learn this?
Trial and error?
Or did it just come to you?
>>BARTZIS: About the karma?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>BARTZIS: Watching people.
I mean, I understood
my own natural karmas.
I understood why I had the
experience at a young age
that there needed to be
people that could understand
the multidimensional
functionality of this world
and begin to help people
break out of mediocrity.
And once breaking
out of mediocrity
and there's no iron hold--
because this world has
got an iron hold on mediocrity.
And once that happens, and
you are confident enough
in your own self, and you
don't need external validation,
learning about karma
is the nuances of it.
>>NOORY: What is traumatology?
>>BARTZIS: The studying
of people's traumas
and relating them
to how to heal them.
Part of what I do is, I
study people's traumas.
Decades of doing this.
And understanding
this type of trauma
creates this type of
karma, this type of karma
has this type of
resolution, and then
pairing them together
with the right resolution.
>>NOORY: When you
do that, what does
that do for the individual?
>>BARTZIS: It unlocks
their greater potential.
Some of them come
with no purpose,
just like sheets in the
wind, and all of a sudden,
there's a circuit complete
in them that hadn't
been completed in their life.
>>NOORY: What creates
trauma, Andrew?
>>BARTZIS: Anything from
parents arguing at a young age
to violence.
It all depends on how
much it's damaged--
>>NOORY: Illness.
>>BARTZIS: --the core youth.
Yeah, it can be
youths, that also.
Cancer at a young age does a
tremendous amount of things
to the young children's mind.
>>NOORY: Oh my God, that's one
of the scariest, saddest things
I've seen, when you go
through a ward of children
who have cancer.
>>BARTZIS: That's right.
And each and every one of them
is afraid, yet still connected
to their little spirit inside
that says, I won't give up.
>>NOORY: And how did they
get picked for that trauma?
>>BARTZIS: That's before life.
That seed meets the egg,
they've chosen that.
>>NOORY: That something happened
in a previous life to them?
>>BARTZIS: Not always.
Sometimes, it's just
about the experience.
>>NOORY: Or is it rotten luck?
>>BARTZIS: No.
As I said, we come here for
learning source connection
and disconnection at
the highest level.
Let's say, you're
a kid with leukemia
at 9, with parents who don't
have the money to afford it,
but somehow, they've
got to get it together.
And the love that it
took to get it together,
for the mother and father
to raise that money
to heal that child, is
the unique experience
the child and the mother
and father signed up for.
Because it changed
the story of love.
>>NOORY: What traumas
do you see the most?
>>BARTZIS: Tremendously,
sexual abuse trauma.
It's so common amongst
our world right now.
>>NOORY: All ages?
>>BARTZIS: Yeah, all ages.
And then physical trauma.
It's created a subculture of
very destructive personalities
that refuse to seek help.
>>NOORY: When you say, refuse
to seek help, why is that?
>>BARTZIS: Does a
psychopath have emotions?
>>NOORY: No.
>>BARTZIS: Do they have regret?
>>BARTZIS: So
they're never going
to seek something that
isn't to their reality.
>>NOORY: Well,
that's a good point.
>>BARTZIS: Unfortunately,
the traumatized world
that we live in, with the
elites that rule this world,
trauma-based victimology
creates psychopaths.
>>NOORY: On that
subject of trauma,
Tiffany Barsotti talks to
Regina Meredith about that.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> Most of the people I know who
are noted as psychics and make
their living
successfully as psychics,
have had some pretty severe
trauma in their early lives.
And I'm trying to think if there
are many exceptions to that.
I personally don't know anyone
who is profoundly psychic,
who just had an
idyllic childhood.
>> It's true.
Yes, this idea about
idyllic childhood and--
for those of us that have had
these profound gifts just given
to us, making sense out of
what the environment was like.
Why were we given these gifts if
they end in such profound ways?
What do we do with them?
And why did we have to come out
of such contrasting situations
in order to create that?
>> I would argue it
slightly differently.
>> OK.
>> I would say, you
weren't given anything.
You came in with these.
These are talent skills that
had been most likely already
present in previous
times and incarnations
that you came in with.
But why is it a person has
to be traumatized and almost
separated out from the herd
in order to really start
implementing these skill sets?
>> It's true.
I do find that.
The why, I don't
fully understand.
But I do know-- and this herd
mentality is very important
to also understand.
Because if we're going
to effect a change,
whether it be in our life
before it can be in anybody
else's-- because we certainly
need to be on the operating
table first--
that these things
really demand--
These events, what I
had to live through
and what many others
have had to live through,
they demand a different
kind of attentiveness
to the energies that are really
coursing through our blood,
coursing through our bones,
that need to be directed.
And left undirected,
there's another part.
In my anger as a kid,
I could move objects
and I could only do
it when I was angry.
>> Right.
There's a lot of
kinetic energy in anger.
>> Yes.
And stuff would go flying.
My mom, there would be
music that she'd be playing,
and I was like, I really don't
want to hear that right now.
And the record
player-- the needle
would lift off the record,
return back, and go back.
And she was like, Tiffany,
did you just do that?
And I'm like, oh!
I guess, I did.
I really didn't want
to hear that right now.
[END PLAYBACK]
Do you agree with her, Andrew?
>>BARTZIS: For the most part.
>>NOORY: I notice you
cringing a little bit
on some things she said.
>>BARTZIS: We choose words and
the semantics of words at time.
I have met many psychics
that haven't been
traumatized at a young age.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BARTZIS: Now, did I go
through traumas at a young age?
No different than anyone else.
I was not abused.
I went through my own choice.
>>NOORY: You seem like you
have your act together.
>>BARTZIS: But I also knew, no
matter how damaged others are,
I didn't take it on.
And a lot of young
children who have traumas,
I use this terminology, they
could smell the mouse fart
next door out of their
intuitiveness, oversensitivity.
And oftentimes, that creates
another trauma within children.
They're so tuned to
their environment
that they're always
in data overload.
And another thing is, trauma is
one of those things we're here
to experience.
It's not all bad.
Example, if you just use the
common thing of a breaking
of a relationship.
And sometimes,
those relationships
come back together--
>>NOORY: Or you
get a better one.
>>BARTZIS: You got a better one.
Part of learning
how to live here
is to deal with the
negativity that can happen
and how we gracefully
deal with it.
>>NOORY: Isn't it helpful
to make mistakes and learn
from them?
>>BARTZIS: Absolutely.
I make mistakes all the time.
>>NOORY: But you
learn from them.
>>BARTZIS: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Don't make
the same mistake twice.
>>BARTZIS: And there are
times that I repeat it.
I repeat the dumb mistake
over and over again.
>>NOORY: You do?
>>BARTZIS: Sure.
I'm just like everyone else.
Part of trauma or part
of just being a psychic
is, what do you do
to not hold on to it?
What spiritual practices, or
what I call spiritual hygiene,
do I create for myself?
Just like you would
vacuum your floors
and change your sheets
in your environment,
there's something you have
to do with your own self that
helps you maintain a form
of spiritual hygiene.
Or a cleanliness that allows you
to continue to do this higher
density subject matter without
absorbing the negative energy.
>>NOORY: How many people
do that for themselves?
>>BARTZIS: Very few.
>>NOORY: That's what I thought.
>>BARTZIS:
Unfortunately, very few.
>>NOORY: Unfortunately.
>>BARTZIS: And part of what I've
been teaching since early 2012
is a delicate
balance between what
is self-healing, self-nurturing,
and self-mastery.
Self-healing means you've
got to love yourself enough.
Self-nurturing,
it's a form of love,
but you've got to plan how
to nurture yourself and know
what's wrong with you.
And then self-mastery
is that journey
to healing and loving yourself.
>>NOORY: What is
ceremony and ritual?
Are they two different things?
>>BARTZIS: They can be the same.
But ceremony is a challenge
we create in ourself, where
we take our daily
spiritual practices
and we come to a moment.
Like a solstice or an equinox,
where we intentionally
raise our frequency,
use our prayer process,
whatever religion
or non-religion,
it doesn't matter.
Where we've gone through
an extended process.
This is my previous
peak of energy
and the ceremony is
now to get my energy
just a little bit higher.
And every time
you do a ceremony,
it would be to
raise your frequency
and go through that personal
challenge of what does
it take to raise my frequency.
>>NOORY: Is it difficult to do?
>>BARTZIS: No.
No.
It just takes effort--
enthusiastic effort.
>>NOORY: Meditation?
>>BARTZIS: That
can be one of them.
But I'm one of those
people that you need
as many tools in the tools box.
Because there are many people
that just can't meditate,
but they can sun gaze.
>>NOORY: They can't stand still.
>>BARTZIS: They can't stand
still, for whatever reason.
Then there are other
techniques that are out there.
There are so many
techniques out there.
Fill your toolbox up
with whatever technique.
Because the point is, if you can
have that enthusiastic effort
in doing it, versus
it being a chore,
you will get so much more
out of the actual effort.
>>NOORY: What do you
do to teach people
how to live in this mode?
>>BARTZIS: Choice, first.
>>NOORY: Explain.
>>BARTZIS: And know
what your choices are.
Example, if you're trying
to have a spiritual hygiene,
your choice is to
follow through.
You have to be committed.
Without commitment, without
courage, and all those things
that keep you
committed, you are going
to have a challenging time
discovering spiritual hygiene.
Discovering ritual and
ceremony, and how they
can cleanse and purify
your internal thoughts
and structures.
And the daily journey
becomes a weekly journey.
And the weekly journey
becomes a monthly journey,
which becomes a yearly journey.
If we're chronicling our
journey, writing down
what's happened to us,
we can learn hindsight
by learning back and
looking at those documents
that we've written.
One of the biggest things
I say, if you're not
recording your spiritual journey
or chronicling your journey,
you're faking the experience.
>>NOORY: How many people
practice what you preach?
>>BARTZIS: Thousands.
Thousands, and thousands, and
thousands, in their own way.
>>NOORY: By themselves?
>>BARTZIS: By themselves, yes.
>>NOORY: Self-taught.
>>BARTZIS: Well,
I do what's called
self-illumination teachings.
>>NOORY: What is that?
>>BARTZIS: What does it take
for you to be self-illuminated?
We've heard an infinite amount
of stories of rags to riches.
The same thing can
happen with spirituality.
There's a common set
of beliefs, no matter
what religion or
spiritual science
it is, that gives the person the
best chance at personal growth.
Understanding what a
sovereign being is,
separate of the legal world.
Are you sovereign enough
to hold your own energy
and not give it away?
Building on all
of those concepts,
where self-illumination
becomes natural.
Where you're no longer
needing external validation
for your internal truths.
>>NOORY: When we started
the program, Andrew,
we talked about how you
started at 9 years old.
>>BARTZIS: Yep.
>>NOORY: Here you are now.
How much have you learned?
>>BARTZIS: Just a scratch.
>>NOORY: That's all?
I think you've learned
more than that.
>>BARTZIS: I have.
But what applies?
I made the choice.
At a very early age,
I asked the questions
I needed to ask to
the Akashic records.
>>NOORY: And you
got your answers?
>>BARTZIS: Now, it's a
matter of living here.
And I don't want
to know the future.
I really don't.
Because if I did, what point
would it be, to be here.
>>NOORY: Would you alter
the future, if you knew?
>>BARTZIS: Probably.
And that's why I came
in with the contract
to not permanently
know the futures.
I see it as a weather forecast.
>>NOORY: You talked
earlier about rituals.
Chris Atwood was talking
on Gaia's "Inspirations"
about the power of that.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> We specifically use rituals
to say that rituals are
conscious, intentional practices
you use to improve your life.
And you make them
habitual, because they
do improve your life.
>> Does the physical act of
a ritual help you actually
manifest something a little
bit stronger than just
the intention process?
>> It's a great question.
The truth is, what
helps us manifest
anything is the power
of our awareness,
our ability to connect with the
deepest part of our own nature.
And then bring that
manifestation from that
place out into the world.
Intention can be very
powerful when the individual
is connected to that
part of themselves,
to that deep, inner part, what
we call your spiritual core
or transcendent core.
But rituals are
really a mechanism
to be able to connect with that.
>> So you're not talking
necessarily about lighting
a candle and sitting in
a meditation ritual type
of thing.
You're talking about
everyday, super practical--
you're reframing the idea
of ritual in this book,
aren't you?
>> Well, we're talking
about both, frankly.
Because we talk about everyday
rituals, which are easy,
simple things you can
incorporate in your day
as conscious,
intentional practices.
And we also talk about
ceremonial rituals, which
are more involved,
which may involve
lighting candles, and
music, and incense, and all
of those things.
They actually serve two
very distinct purposes.
A ritual has many purposes from
many different perspectives.
And, of course, "improve"
is a relative term.
But what you'll see
is, in every industry,
people who are really,
really successful
have all incorporated their
rituals into their life
in one way or another.
You see that sports
players use rituals
to improve their
performance, to be
able to get their mind
into the game, as it were.
Musicians and
artists use rituals
to spark their
creativity, so that they
can be the best at
what their passion is.
Business leaders use rituals
to create cohesive teams
and to create strong
corporate cultures.
Celebrities use
rituals to create
balance between their personal
lives and their work lives.
And, for me, all of those
are improving your life.
[END PLAYBACK]
Much like what
you've been saying.
>>BARTZIS: There are
little micro-rituals.
Example, the place
that you sleep
is something you should do a
regular cleansing, purification
ritual.
Oftentimes, the
New Agers use sage,
but it doesn't have to be that.
It can be prayers.
It can be intentional energy.
Just that first
layer, this is where
I sleep and I'm going
to consciously apply
my sacred wisdom, so that
the place that I sleep
has my love and
protection behind it.
And then there's
the four corners
of the bed, the four
corners of the room.
You can make it as
extensive as you want.
>>NOORY: It seems like a
simple formula, Andrew.
>>BARTZIS: It is.
Like I said, it's
just like you would
vacuum your floors in your
house or change your sheets,
there are certain
repetitive rituals
that can be incorporated
into everyday life.
>>NOORY: Do you tap into other
sources to do what you do?
>>BARTZIS: Yes.
>>NOORY: What are those sources?
Are they ETs, or
anything like that?
>>BARTZIS: Yeah.
There's collective
consciousnesses
that are not of this world,
that have a very different view
of our incarnational process.
There are groups that
are tens of thousands
of different species
that have created
a temporary collective to try
to understand what we are here.
>>NOORY: That many, huh?
>>BARTZIS: Let's
just say, there's
well over 10,000 species
actively invested
with the journey to awaken
or to keep us asleep.
>>NOORY: If we all access
our Akashic records,
which you've learned how to do,
will we be happy by doing that,
or will we be scared?
>>BARTZIS: Not everyone
will know right away
what question to ask.
>>NOORY: And that
question should be what?
>>BARTZIS: Who am I?
What am I?
Where am I?
Why am I?
But oftentimes, somebody
who is run by financial gain
will want to know
tomorrow's lottery numbers.
>>NOORY: Or stock holdings.
>>BARTZIS: Which is
personal responsibility now.
>>NOORY: Andrew, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>BARTZIS: Thank you.
>>NOORY: How do people
get ahold of you?
>>BARTZIS: You can go to my
website, andrewbartzis.com.
>>NOORY: Spell it out for us.
>>BARTZIS: Andrew,
a-n-d-r-e-w-b-a-r-t-z-i-s.com.
And find me on Facebook and
all those social media systems.
>>NOORY: Best to you.
>>BARTZIS: Thank you so much.
>>NOORY: It's great
having human beings
like Andrew helping
steer us through life
in the great direction
we need to go.
I'm George Noory, thanks for
watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]